## 3. Embodied World Model Optimization (30 points)

Embodied Intelligence represents a transformative frontier in artificial intelligence, integrating
perception, reasoning, and physical action within unified systems. By enabling intelligent agents to
interact directly with the physical world, embodied intelligence bridges the gap between digital
computation and real-world agency. General-purpose humanoid robots occupy a central position in
this field, as they must operate effectively in unstructured environments, manipulate a wide range of
objects, and demonstrate a practical understanding of physical principles.

For a humanoid robot to act purposefully, effective operation depends on a tight coupling
between decision-making and environmental simulation. The Vision–Language–Action (VLA)
model functions as the agent’s cognitive core, translating linguistic instructions and perceptual
inputs into concrete action proposals. Complementing this component is the Learned World Model,
which serves as a neural simulator of the environment. By evaluating the candidate actions
generated by the VLA, the World Model predicts future outcomes through the generation of
physically realistic video sequences. This form of “mental rehearsal” enables the creation of a
physically plausible digital twin of the real world, supporting policy evaluation, and safety
validation without the risks associated with physical trial-and-error. However, in contrast to the
discrete action outputs of the VLA, the World Model must synthesize high-dimensional, continuous
video representations, making it the dominant computational bottleneck within the overall system.

To address this computational bottleneck and enable practical deployment, the Preliminary
Round of this challenge focuses on accelerating UnifoLM-WMA-0, a state-of-the-art world model
developed by Unitree Robotics for embodied intelligence tasks. Participants are required to optimize
the model’s inference performance under specified scenarios and command inputs, thereby enabling
rapid “mental rehearsal” for the robot, while strictly maintaining a defined visual quality threshold.

The task will be evaluated using five robotic scenarios provided by the Committee. From each
scenario, four representative samples are selected, resulting in a total of 20 evaluation samples. The
inference time measured for each sample will serve as the primary quantitative performance metric.

Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) will be used to assess the visual fidelity between the videos
generated by participants and the corresponding reference videos provided by the Committee. For
each of the 20 evaluation samples, the generated video must achieve a PSNR of at least 25. If any
sample within a given scenario fails to meet the PSNR ≥ 25 requirement, the scenario will receive
zero points.

Workflow Tutorial

(1) Install UnifoLM-WMA-0 project and download the model checkpoints

UnifoLM-WMA-0 can be accessed through the GitHub repository
[https://github.com/unitreerobotics/unifolm-world-model-action](https://github.com/unitreerobotics/unifolm-world-model-action). And the model checkpoints of
UnifoLM-WMA-0 can be obtained from: [https://huggingface.co/unitreerobotics/UnifoLM-WMA￾0-Dual](https://huggingface.co/unitreerobotics/UnifoLM-WMA￾0-Dual)

(2) Download the input files

Download the initial conditions and reference videos for 5 scenarios with 20 samples as input
files from the ASC repository [https://github.com/ASC-Competition](https://github.com/ASC-Competition) and place them in UnifoLM￾WMA-0 repository. The following is an example of the input file structure for a single scenario:

```text
UnifoLM-WMA-0/unitree_g1_pack_camera
├── case1
│ ├── run_world_model_interaction.sh
│ ├── unitree_g1_pack_camera_case1.mp4
│ └── world_model_interaction_prompts
│ ├── images
│ │ └── unitree_g1_pack_camera
│ │ └── 0.png
│ ├── transitions
│ │ └── unitree_g1_pack_camera
│ │ ├── 0.h5
│ │ └── meta_data
│ │ └── stats.safetensors
│ └── unitree_g1_pack_camera.csv
├── case2
├── case3
└── case4
```

(3) Run inference

Specify the correct absolute path for data_dir in
configs/inference/world_model_interaction.yaml according to the README of
[https://github.com/unitreerobotics/unifolm-world-model-action](https://github.com/unitreerobotics/unifolm-world-model-action).

Once the above preparations are complete, you can execute the inference task using the
following command:

```text
cd unifolm-world-model-action
bash {scenario_name}/{case_id}/run_world_model_interaction.sh
# For example: bash unitree_g1_pack_camera/case1/run_world_model_interaction.sh
```

Upon execution, the script will produce output similar to the following:

```text
 0%|
| 0/8 [00:00<?, ?it/s]>>> Step 0: generating actions ...
>>> Step 0: interacting with world model ...
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
12%| █ █ █ █ █ █ ██ █ █ █ █ █ █ █ ██ █ █ █ █ █ █ █ ██ █ █ █ █ █ ▍
| 1/8 [00:46<05:22, 46.03s/it]>>> Step 1: generating actions ...
>>> Step 1: interacting with world model ...
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
25%|█████████████████████████████████████
| 2/8 [01:33<04:39, 46.65s/it]>>> Step 2: generating actions
...
...
>>> Step 7: interacting with world model ...
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
100%|█████████████████████████████████████
8/8 [06:10<00:00, 46.29s/it]
real 8m15.226s
user 278m50.952s
sys 17m21.528s
```

In this challenge, the real time is considered as the inference time, which is 8m15.226s for 1
sample from unitree_g1_pack_camera dataset.

Upon completion of the inference process, an output directory will be generated. Below is an
example of the directory structure obtained from the inference of one case from
unitree_g1_pack_camera dataset:

```text
UnifoLM-WMA-0/unitree_g1_pack_camera
├── case1
│ ├── output
│ │ ├── inference
│ │ │ ├── 0_full_fs6.mp4
│ │ │ └── sample_0
│ │ │ ├── dm
│ │ │ │ └── 6
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-0.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-1.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-10.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-2.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-3.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-4.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-5.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-6.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-7.mp4
│ │ │ │ ├── itr-8.mp4
│ │ │ │ └── itr-9.mp4
│ │ │ └── wm
│ │ │ └── 6
│ │ │ ├── itr-0.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-1.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-10.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-2.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-3.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-4.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-5.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-6.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-7.mp4
│ │ │ ├── itr-8.mp4
│ │ │ └── itr-9.mp4
│ │ └── tensorboard
│ │ └── events.out.tfevents.1767167731.e85c9c312cc5.16758.0
│ └── output.log
├── case2
├── case3
└── case4
```

(4) PSNR evaluation

Download the PSNR evaluation script and the reference videos from the ASC repository
[https://github.com/ASC-Competition](https://github.com/ASC-Competition). Then, execute the PSNR calculation script to obtain the
output:

```text
python3 psnr_score_for_challenge.py --gt_video path/to/gt/videos --pred_video path/to/pred/video -
-output_file path/to/output/json
# For example: python3 psnr_score_for_challenge.py --gt_video
unitree_g1_pack_camera/case1/unitree_g1_pack_camera_case1.mp4 --pred_video
unitree_g1_pack_camera/case1/output/inference/0_full_fs6.mp4 --output_file
unitree_g1_pack_camera/case1/psnr_result.json
```

This script will generate a JSON file containing a dictionary of the PSNR score for one sample.
An example of the JSON file content is (PSNR score shown in this example are for illustration
purposes only and should not be used as a reference.):

```text
{
 "gt_video": "unitree_g1_pack_camera/case1/unitree_g1_pack_camera_case1.mp4",
 "pred_video": "unitree_g1_pack_camera/case1/output/inference/0_full_fs6.mp4",
 "psnr": 28.32714035028894
}
```

Result Submission

Please submit all the requested files by compressing them in a file named
Teamname_worldmodel.tar.gz. Below is the directory structure:

```text
 Teamname_worldmodel
├── code
├── proposal_file
└── results
 ├── summary.json
 ├── unitree_g1_pack_camera
 │ ├── case1
 │ │ ├── 0_full_fs6.mp4
 │ │ └── output.log
 │ ├── case2
 │ ├── case3
 │ └── case4
 ├── unitree_z1_dual_arm_cleanup_pencils
 │ ├── case1
 │ ├── case2
 │ ├── case3
 │ └── case4
 ├── unitree_z1_dual_arm_stackbox
 │ ├── case1
 │ ├── case2
 │ │ ├── case3
 │ └── case4
 ├── unitree_z1_dual_arm_stackbox_v2
 │ ├── case1
 │ ├── case2
 │ ├── case3
 │ └── case4
 └── unitree_z1_stackbox
 ├── case1
 ├── case2
 ├── case3
 └── case4
```

Notes:

(1) The complete source code of the project should be provided.

(2) 20 directories for 20 cases of 5 scenarios should be provided.
For each case, the case directory must contain the complete MP4 video file (such as
0_full_fs6.mp4) and the output.log file containing the screen output including real time
during inference procedure.

(3) A summary.json file should be provided.
Please generate the JSON file strictly in accordance with the specified format. The time
and PSNR values shown in the example are provided for illustrative purposes only, and
they must not be used as a reference for evaluation.

```text
[
 {"scenario": "unitree_g1_pack_camera",
 "case_id": 1,
 "time_before_optim": 606.984,
 "time_after_optim": 397.532,
 "psnr": 28.3627},
 {"scenario": "unitree_g1_pack_camera",
 "case_id": 2,
 "time_before_optim": 601.228,
 "time_after_optim": 408.252,
 "psnr": 26.1782},
 ......
 {"scenario": "unitree_z1_stackbox",
 "case_id": 4,
 "time_before_optim": 542.386,
 "time_after_optim": 338.097,
 "psnr": 29.2963}
 ]
```

The JSON file must contain a list of 20 dictionaries, each containing the result information
for a case. Each dictionary includes the scenario name, case ID, inference time before and
after optimization (in seconds), and the PSNR score.

4. A proposal file should be provided.
   The proposal file may be submitted in DOC or PDF format and must include the
   evaluation results, a comprehensive description of the optimization methods, and a
   comparison of execution time before and after optimization for all evaluation samples.

Evaluation Criteria Overview

During the evaluation process, the ASC26 Committee will place primary emphasis on
improvements in inference performance. In addition, proposals that present clear, well-justified
optimization strategies together with a sound explanation of the underlying technical principles will
serve as a key basis for scoring. The following points highlight important considerations for
participating teams.

(1) The model's weight parameters are restricted to a minimum of 16-bit precision; sub-16-bit
quantization of weights is not allowed.

(2) Do not modify the run_world_model_interaction.sh file in each case directory (except for
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES). Do not modify the
configs/inference/world_model_interaction.yaml file (except for data_dir).

(3) Do not modify the provided input files.

(4) Please keep the directory structure and the resulting files unchanged.

(5) For each of the 20 samples, the generated video must achieve a PSNR ≥ 25.

(6) The submitted inference log files should contain details such as time consumption for each
step and other essential elements during the inference process.

(7) Participants are required to provide comprehensive details of model inference process, the
machine specification, the environment setup, the optimization methods used and the
performance comparison, which will be considered as the primary basis for scoring by the
ASC26 committee.

(8) Participants must submit all required files as specified above. Failure to provide any of the
required materials will result in a score of zero for this component of the evaluation.
